Welcome to the China show. President
Trump is set to address the nation in
just a few moments to give an update
about the war in Iran. It is likely to
be some sort of victory speech as well.
Will he do enough to satisfy markets
here at this moment? Measured pace here
when it comes to how Asian markets are
waking up to this speech here today, but
we are just moments away. I'm Yvonne Man
with David Ingles.
>> Yep, a very good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us and we are as
we were just pointing out here counting
down minutes away from this
prime time address coming out of the US
president. Expectations are high. That
is an understatement. You look at where
markets are trading, the the direction
of travel the last 24 hours,
particularly in the last 2 hours. This
continued move to add more risk
on oil prices. We're back below 100 on
West Texas and Brent. Just keep in mind,
splitting a difference, we're still up
30% from the time the war started, but
equity markets are some of them moving
forward. This is a separate angle which
we'll get to later, of course, when you
look at the price of equities, which is
the tech component, but again, we we
could save that for later on, I'm sure.
Yeah, is he going to deliver a an
address that is market-friendly?
Certainly, we're looking to see if he
addresses the inflation concerns, of
course, given the energy shocks here and
really the inflation aftershocks as
well. As Joe Matthew, our colleague, was
talking about, you know, $4 at the pump
is already a reality in the US. So, how
he tries to reassure the American people
or even the world about where energy
prices are going to go is certainly
going to be a key focus for, of course,
oil traders out there. Yeah, it's
certainly the domestic, you're right,
the domestic focus is four, could get to
five when you look at some analysts.
Here we go. The US president is set to
address the nation and also the world
here at the White House. Let us listen
in
to President Trump. Thank you very much.
My fellow Americans, good evening.
Let me begin by congratulating the team
at NASA
and our brave astronauts on the
successful launch of Artemis 2. It was
quite something.
It will be traveling further than any
manned rocket has ever flown and will
very substantially past the moon,
go around it and come back home from a
distance that has
never been done before. It's amazing.
They are on the way and God bless them.
These are brave people.
We want to God bless this four
unbelievable astronauts.
As we speak this evening, it's been just
1 month since the United States military
began
operation
Epic Fury
targeting the world's number one state
sponsor of terror,
Iran.
In these past 4 weeks, our armed forces
have delivered swift, decisive,
overwhelming victories on the
battlefield.
Victories like few people have ever seen
before.
Tonight, Iran's navy is gone.
Their air force is in ruins.
Their leaders, most of them,
terrorist
regime they led are now dead.
Their command and control of the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps is
being decimated as we speak.
Their ability to launch missiles and
drones is dramatically curtailed and
their weapons factories and rocket
launchers are being blown to pieces.
Very few of them left.
Never in the history of warfare has an
enemy suffered such clear and
devastating large-scale losses in a
matter of weeks.
Our enemies are losing and America,
as it has been for 5 years under my
presidency, is winning and now winning
bigger
than ever before.
Before discussing this current
situation, I also want to thank our
troops for the masterful job they did in
taking the country of Venezuela in a
matter of minutes.
That it was quick, lethal, violent, and
respected by everyone all over the
world.
After rebuilding our military during my
first term,
we have by far the strongest military
anywhere in the world. And now we're
working along with Venezuela and
are in a true state as joint venture
partners. We're getting along incredibly
well
in the production and sale of massive
amounts of oil and gas,
the second largest reserves on Earth
after the United States of America.
We're now totally independent of the
Middle East,
and yet we are there to help. We don't
have to be there. We don't need their
oil. We don't need anything they have,
but we're there to help our allies.
Tonight, I want to provide an update on
the tremendous progress our warriors
have made in Iran, and discuss why
Operation Epic Fury is necessary for the
safety of America and the security of
the free world.
From the very first day I announced my
campaign for president in 2015,
I have vowed that I would never allow
Iran to have a nuclear weapon.
This fanatical regime has been chanting
death to America, death to Israel for 47
years. Their proxies were behind the
murder of
241 Americans in the Marine barracks
bombing in Beirut, the slaughter of
hundreds of our service members with
roadside bombs.
They were involved in the attack on the
USS Cole,
and they carried out the countless other
heinous acts, including the blood just
horrible bloody atrocities of
October 7th in Israel. Something that
most people have never seen anything
like it.
This murderous regime also recently
killed 45,000 of their own people
who were protesting in Iran. 45,000
dead.
For these terrorists to have nuclear
weapons would be an intolerable threat.
The most violent and thuggish regime on
Earth would be free to carry out their
campaigns of terror, coercion, conquest,
and mass murder from behind
a nuclear shield. I will never let that
happen.
And neither should any of our past
presidents.
This situation has been going on for 47
years and should have been handled long
before I arrived in office.
I did many things during my two terms in
office to stop the quest for nuclear
weapons by Iran first.
And perhaps most importantly, I killed
General Qassem Soleimani
in my first term.
He was an evil genius, brilliant person,
a horrible human being, however, the
father of the roadside bomb.
And he lived just horrible what he did.
Iran would have been
perhaps in far better, stronger
position. Had he lived, we would have
had probably a different conversation
tonight. But you know what? We'd still
be winning and winning big.
And then very importantly, I terminated
Barack Hussein Obama's Iran nuclear
deal, a disaster.
Obama gave them 1.7 billion dollars in
cash, green, green cash. Took it out of
banks from Virginia, D.C.,
and Maryland. All the cash they had.
Flew it by airplanes in an attempt to
buy their respect and loyalty, but it
didn't work.
They laughed at our president and went
on with their mission to have a nuclear
bomb.
His Iran deal would have led to a
colossal arsenal of massive nuclear
weapons for Iran.
They would have had them years ago and
they would have used them. Would have
been a different world.
There would have been no Middle East and
no Israel right now, in my opinion, the
opinion of a lot of great experts.
Had I not terminated that terrible deal
that I was I was so honored to do it. I
was so proud to do it. It was so bad
right from the beginning.
Essentially, I did what no other
president was willing to do.
They made mistakes and I am correcting
them.
My first preference was always the path
of diplomacy, yet the regime continued
their relentless quest for nuclear
weapons and rejected every attempt at an
agreement.
For this reason, in June, I ordered a
strike on Iran's key nuclear facilities
and operation
Midnight Hammer. Nobody's ever seen
anything like it.
Those beautiful B-2 bombers performed
magnificently.
We totally obliterated those nuclear
sites. The regime then sought
to rebuild their nuclear program at a
totally different location, making clear
they had no intention of abandoning
their pursuit of nuclear weapons.
They were also rapidly building a vast
stockpile of conventional ballistic
missiles
and would soon have had missiles that
could reach the American homeland,
Europe, and virtually any other place on
Earth.
Iran's strategy was so obvious.
They wanted to produce as many missiles
as possible and they did
with the longest range possible and they
had some weapons that nobody believed
they had. We just learned that uh we
took them out. We took them all out so
that no one would really dare stop
in their race for a nuclear bomb, a
nuclear weapon, a nuclear weapon like
nobody's ever seen before. They were
right at the doorstep.
For years everyone has said that Iran
cannot have nuclear weapons, but in the
end
those are just words if you're not
willing to take action when the time
comes.
As I stated in my announcement of
Operation Epic Fury, our objectives are
very simple and clear.
We are systematically dismantling the
regime's ability to threaten America or
project power outside of their borders.
That means eliminating Iran's navy,
which is now absolutely destroyed,
hurting their air force and their
missile program at levels never seen
before, and annihilating their defense
industrial base. We've done all of it.
Their navy is gone, their air force is
gone,
their missiles are just about used up or
beaten.
Taken together, these actions will
Iran military, crush their
ability to support terrorist proxies,
and deny them the ability to build a
nuclear bomb.
Our armed forces have been
extraordinary. There's never been
anything like it militarily. Everyone is
talking about it, and tonight I'm
pleased to say that these core strategic
objectives are nearing completion.
As we celebrate this progress, we think
especially of the 13 American warriors
who have laid down their lives in this
fight
to prevent our children from ever having
to face a nuclear Iran.
Twice this past month I have traveled to
Dover Air Force Base,
and it's been something. I wanted to be
with those heroes as they returned to
American soil, and I was with them and
their families, their parents, their
wives, their husbands.
We salute them and now we must honor
them by completing the mission for which
they gave their lives and every single
one of the people
their loved ones said, "Please, sir,
please finish the job." Every one of
them.
And we are going to finish the job and
we're going to finish it very fast.
We're getting very close. I want to
thank our allies in the Middle East,
Israel,
Saudi Arabia, Qatar,
the UAE, Kuwait, and Bahrain.
They've been great and we will not let
them get hurt or fail in any way, shape,
or form.
Many Americans have been concerned to
see the recent rise in gasoline prices
here at home.
This short-term increase has been
entirely the result of the Iranian
regime launching deranged terror attacks
against commercial oil tankers and
neighboring countries that have nothing
to do with the conflict.
This is yet more proof that Iran can
never be trusted with nuclear weapons.
They will use them and they will use
them quickly.
It would lead to decades of extortion,
economic pain, and instability worse
than we
can ever imagine.
The United States has never been better
prepared economically to confront this
threat. You all know that.
We built the strongest economy in
history.
We're going through it right now, the
strongest in history. In 1 year, we've
taken a dead and crippled country. I
hate to say that, but we were a dead
and crippled country after the
last administration and made it the
hottest country anywhere in the world by
far with no inflation, record-setting
investments coming into the United
States, over $18 trillion, and the
highest stock
market ever with 53 all-time record
highs in just 1 year.
It all positioned us to get rid of a
cancer that has long simmered. It's
known as the nuclear Iran, and they
didn't know
what was coming. They've never imagined
it. Remember, because of our drill,
baby, drill program, America has plenty
of gas. We have so much gas.
Under my leadership, we're number one
producer of oil and gas on the planet
without even discussing the millions of
barrels that we're getting from
Venezuela.
Because of the Trump administration's
policies, we produce more oil and gas
than Saudi Arabia and Russia combined.
Think of that. Saudi Arabia and Russia
combined. And that number will soon be
substantially higher than that.
There's no country like us anywhere in
the world, and
we're in great shape for the future. The
United States imports almost no oil
through the Hormuz Strait,
and won't be taking any in the future.
We don't need it. We haven't needed it,
and we don't need it.
We've beaten and completely decimated
Iran. They are decimated both militarily
and economically and every other way,
and
the countries of the world that do
receive oil through the Hormuz Strait
must take care of that passage. They
must cherish it. They must grab it and
cherish it. They can do it easily.
We will be helpful, but they should take
the lead in protecting the oil that they
so desperately depend on.
So, to those countries that can't get
fuel, many of which refuse to get
involved in the decapitation of Iran, we
had to do it ourselves.
I have a suggestion. Number one, buy oil
from the United States of America. We
have plenty. We have so much. And number
two, build up some delayed courage.
Should have done it before. Should have
done it with us as we asked.
Go to the Strait and just take it,
protect it, use it for yourselves. Iran
has been
essentially decimated. The hard part is
done, so it should be easy. And in any
event, when this conflict is over, the
Strait will open up naturally. It'll
just open up naturally. They're going to
want to be able to sell oil because
that's all they have to try and rebuild.
It will
resume the flowing and the gas prices
will rapidly come back down. Stock
prices will rapidly go back up. They
haven't come down very much, frankly.
They came down a little bit, but they've
had some very good days over the last
couple of days. We've done actually much
better than I thought, but we had to
take that little journey to Iran to get
rid of this horrible threat.
With our historic tax cuts, where people
are just now
talking about receiving larger refunds
than they ever thought possible.
They are getting so much more money than
they thought. That's from the great,
big, beautiful bill. Our economy is
strong and improving by the day, and it
will soon be roaring back like never
before. It will top the levels that it
was a month ago.
I've made clear from the beginning of
Operation Epic Fury that we will
continue until our objectives are fully
achieved.
Thanks to the progress we've made, I can
say tonight that we are on track to
complete all of America's military
objectives shortly, very shortly.
We're going to hit them extremely hard
over the next two to three weeks. We're
going to bring them back to the Stone
Ages, where they belong.
In the meantime, discussions are
ongoing. Regime change was not our goal.
We never said regime change, but regime
change has occurred because of all of
their original leaders' death. They're
all dead.
The new group is less radical and much
more reasonable. Yet, if during this
period of time no deal is made, we have
our eyes on key targets.
If there is no deal, we are going to hit
each and every one of their electric
generating plants very hard and probably
simultaneously.
We have not hit their oil, even though
that's the easiest target of all,
because it would not give them even a
small chance of survival or rebuilding.
But, we could hit it and it would be
gone and there's not a thing they could
do about it.
They have no anti-aircraft equipment.
Their radar is 100% annihilated.
We are unstoppable as a military force.
The nuclear sites that we obliterated
with a B-2 bombers have been hit so hard
that it would take months to get near
the nuclear dust
and we have it under intense satellite
surveillance and control.
If we see them make a move, even a move
for it, we'll hit them with missiles
very hard again.
We have all the cards. They have none.
It's very important that we keep this
conflict in perspective.
American involvement in World War I
lasted 1 year, 7 months and 5 days.
World War II lasted for 3 years, 8
months, and 25 days.
The Korean War lasted for 3 years, 1
month,
and 2 days.
The Vietnam War lasted for 19 years, 5
months, and 29 days.
Iraq went on for 8 years, 8 months, and
28 days.
We are in this military operation so
powerful, so brilliant against one of
the most powerful countries for
32 days
and the country has been eviscerated
and essentially is really no longer a
threat. They were the bully of the
Middle East, but they're the bully no
longer.
This is a true investment in your
children and your grandchildren's
future.
The whole world is watching and they
can't leave the power, strength, and
brilliance. They just can't believe what
they're seeing. They Leave it to your
imagination, but they can't believe what
they're seeing, the brilliance of the
United States
military.
Tonight, every American kid can look
forward to a day when we are finally
free from the wickedness of Iranian
aggression and the specter of nuclear
blackmail.
Because of the actions we have taken, we
are on the cusp of ending Iran's
sinister threat to America
and the world. And I'll tell you, the
world is watching and when
we do, when it's all over, the United
States will be safer, stronger, more
prosperous, and greater than it has ever
been before.
May God bless the men and women of the
United States Armed Forces, and may God
bless
the United States of America. Thank you
very much and good night.
Welcome back. You're watching, of
course, our special coverage of the US
president's just now concluded uh
address, prime-time address to the
nation and to the world around
updates around Iran. Uh
something that stood out to me, at
least, is when you look at I'm just
judging here by the market reaction
is that there has been no major uh
update in as far as the end is
concerned. And the message markets are
taking looking at this risk-off move
across assets. Dollar higher, oil is
higher, stocks are down. It's things
could get worse uh before they do
eventually. Hopefully, the president is
correct in that in a several weeks
things get better. Let's bring in Joe
Matthew, our Bloomberg Balance of Power
co-anchor joining us from Washington
right with his takeaways. Joe, what's
the doubt to you?
Well, it's interesting. He talked about
getting rid of a cancer as he called it
that has long simmered, which is a
nuclear Iran. But the president did not
provide any new evidence of an imminent
threat
as many hoped that he might. Nor did he
promise to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
Remarkable to hear him point to the
countries of the world he said that do
receive oil through the strait. He said
they must take care of that passage.
They must grab it and cherish it. They
can do it easily. The president said the
hard part's done. When this conflict is
over, the strait will open naturally.
Suggesting we may wind down our
involvement in this conflict before the
strait has reopened. And he has teased
this idea over the past couple of days.
Other than that, it was largely a
composite of what the president has
written on Truth Social over the past 48
72 hours here. There was not a lot new
in this speech. He said we don't have to
be there. We do not need their oil. We
don't need anything they have. We're
there to help our allies, which would
also run counter to much of the
messaging that we've heard from the
administration. And in many cases, the
ideas and themes of the entire MAGA
movement, which of course align with the
America First movement and the lack of
foreign entanglements. The president's
saying we don't have to be there.
Many might also ask then why are we
there?
Joe, he also said we will hit them hard
the next 2 to 3 weeks and still
threatening strikes, right? Uh if Iran
says no deal, we will hit the electric
plants in Iran if there is no deal. We
never said regime change. Are we getting
more clarity still about the objectives
of this war and what the US is trying to
achieve?
Well, I guess they are narrowing down,
maybe crystallizing some of those
objectives. Of course, we have to know
the president has said just this week
that regime change has already occurred.
He has said that we've already won and
that we have eliminated the nuclear
threat. He talked about achieving the
core strategic objectives and he did
list them. Eliminating Iran's Air Force,
Navy, and its defense industrial base.
And keeping Iran from having a nuclear
weapon. He said are nearing completion.
These are also ideas that he have has
said that have already been
accomplished. So that two to three week
timeline is important here. The
president did say just in the last 24
hours that that's about how much time
that we would need to have left. I don't
know if he's assuming that our NATO
allies will start populating the strait
or how that gets reopened, but it could
take more than two or three weeks for
that to happen, of course.
And Joe, just a I guess a final
question. Um
that headline that just dropped, it's a
red headline
that Yvonne just mentioned there that
they will be hitting the electrical
electric plants if there is no deal.
What do we know about any
diplomatic conversations that are
potentially taking place as we speak?
Very little, which is the issue. We've
heard of Iran trading messages. But Iran
has so far said that there are no formal
talks underway, even though the
president has pointed to Steve Witkoff,
Jared Kushner, and even the vice vice
president of the United States, J.D.
Vance, as at least being prepared for
real negotiations. He's touted progress
in these talks, but at every turn Iran
has said that that's not true. So it's
difficult to know exactly where this
stands here. With another two weeks, the
president still threatening Iran's
electric plants. That, of course, along
with his threats prior to hit the
country's desalination plants, would run
counter to the Geneva Convention. So if
that is in fact the final ultimatum here
without the strait being reopened, we
may have learned something again
tonight.
Joe, great to have you. Thank you so
much. Joe Mathieu there, our Balance of
Power co-anchor joining us from DC this
evening. Uh joining us now from Virginia
is Bilal Saab, senior managing director
at Trends US, the independent research
and advisory firm. He also previously
served as senior advisor in the
Pentagon's office of the Under Secretary
of Defense for policy. Bilal, thank you
so much for for joining us. And you
know, just under 20 minutes, this
speech, markets seem to be interpreting
this as maybe, you know, 2 to 3 weeks,
that timeline might be still too
optimistic here, and they think that
there's still quite a lot of
uncertainty, possibly. What's your take
of the of the speech from the president
today?
Long story short, I mean, we could put
it under microscope and you know,
analyze every single word he said, but
long story short is that just like any
other speech, you know, some truths,
some exaggerations, some lack of
clarity, and also some
things that were just simply not true.
I
was actually struck the most by the
insistence on the assumption that the
greater military pressure you apply on
the Iranians, the more likely that they
would concede on some of the things that
we're asking them to do, including
opening the Strait of Hormuz, giving up
the nuclear material that they have,
that is bomb grade material, close
enough at least, and then rupturing any
relations with those regional actors
that we find problematic. We're nowhere
near close to any of those things. But,
I was actually
comforted by the fact that the president
specifically mentioned military
objectives. There's a big difference
between military objectives and
strategic objectives. The military
objectives have largely been met. I
mean, we have decimated their navy, we
have decimated much of their military
capacity. They never had any air power
to begin with, frankly. But, all of that
stuff could be easily rebuilt. The
strategic objectives are vastly, you
know, unachievable, frankly. And
obviously, I wasn't expecting any detail
about the timeline of that, what is the
exact strategy to get there and so on
and so forth. I'm not buying the
argument that the straight is going to
reopen naturally. I don't even know what
that means. Uh that's the whole point of
this entire conflict right now. Also
don't agree and you guys obviously are
the experts in this that uh just because
we don't import oil from that part of
the world doesn't mean that we're not
affected by the global price of oil. As
a matter of fact, you could just easily
see that we are. And so that whole
notion that it doesn't matter, you know,
uh uh what happens in the straight for
us and that if the NATO wants to take
care of that problem, so be it.
That is obviously a mis-
misinterpretation and an an erroneous
reading of the entire global energy
markets.
Bilal, David David here. The
Do Do you think there we're at least
better off in terms of
understanding what the ultimate
objective is, which I think
my interpretation on what the president
said, and I want to see what you think
about this,
is the military objective is could in
fact be the strategic objective.
Well, look. I mean, uh if if once again,
if you want to look at the metrics of
military destruction of Iranian
capabilities, there's a lot of data to,
you know, to verify that. Fair enough.
So you got the check on that one.
Uh but then what? Like I said, I mean,
you could still rebuild uh all of that
military capacity that they lost. And in
my opinion, the top priority remains,
and you've heard it in the speech as
well, is to extract, take away that
highly enriched uranium because it is
our number one priority. And we're
nowhere nowhere nowhere near close to
that, right? And so everything hinges
now on what we agree on in the
negotiations.
And whether if there is no deal, what do
we do after that, right? And we're going
to deploy ground
uh troops uh in that part of the world,
whether to invade target and apply more
military pressure on the Iranians to
concede. Well, once again, it will go
back to that very challenging assumption
where
uh it seems like the administration is
insisting on it. The harder we hit them,
the more it's likely that the Iranians
will concede. Except that that
proposition never takes into
consideration how the Iranians have
responded to that. It's not like they
don't have any options, and they have
exercised those options. They have
escalated themselves. And so, it comes
down to a game of chicken. Who's going
to blame first? And who's got greater
tolerance to absorb the risks and the
costs and the economic pain. So far,
they have shown that they are more
willing to absorb costs than we are.
And so, if you're going to drag this for
weeks and weeks, uh and then you you you
can hear the president saying, you know,
previous wars in which we were involved
lasted years, months, and so on and so
forth. I don't see us, frankly, lasting
uh that number of years or that number
of months, frankly, and absorbing all
these economic costs uh down the road. I
still think that have a plethora of
options to really escalate and cause
tremendous mayhem in the global energy
markets. We're not there yet, but if we
were to escalate further and send ground
troops to that part of the world, the
Iranians have already threatened that
they're going to hit critical
infrastructure, energy infrastructure in
the Gulf, which itself will cause the
price of oil to spike, and then, of
course, cause all sorts of mayhem in uh
the Gulf states, which itself will cause
greater instability, which will affect,
once again, global energy markets. So,
yes, decimated militarily, but boy, do
they still have a number of options that
they haven't exercised yet. It could
get, as one of your colleagues said, a
whole lot worse, and it's not going to
get any better, frankly, before it gets
worse.
And we've seen what Iran can do, right,
given the tight grip that they've had on
the Strait of Hormuz, which, you know,
you mentioned. I I want to go back to
the part where the president said where
he encouraged nations that have relied
on you know Middle East oil to really
buy from the US. This delayed courage he
says to go to the straight and take it
protect it. The hard part is done.
So they should open naturally.
What would that look like? I know you
said it's not going to happen naturally.
Does does do the Gulf nations have to
take part in this conflict to to finally
reopen the Strait of Hormuz? Should they
take part in this war?
Let's start with
one of the biggest and perhaps most
disturbing revelations of this conflict
when it comes to the NATO countries is
the realization that they have so little
naval capability, right?
Even the old British Empire which was
ruling the the entire world with its
navy, nowadays we've realized that they
have so little naval capability that
they can really not real rely on to open
the Strait of Hormuz. Now let alone the
much more inferior Gulf nations who have
never invested in military power in a
maritime power despite the fact
counterintuitively that their economic
livelihoods depend on their ability to
sell oil through that major choke point.
And so when it comes to capability, let
alone the willingness. Let's just assume
that they are more than willing to do
this even though they are massively
alienated by this administration as you
very well know. They've been treated
badly and all the complaints that
they've issued against the
administration. Well, let's just assume
that they have all the willingness in
the world to really contribute. Even if
we have that they don't have the
capability. And even if they do have
some capability, the issue of the Strait
of Hormuz is never about capacity and
volume. It is such a narrow strait. It's
not really about more ships traversing
that. It is much more about exercising
enough pressure on the Iranians to open
that strait. And I don't think the NATO
allies, let alone the United States
itself, has been able to crack the code
of how much pressure you can apply
against the Iranians to open that
straight. And so, I don't find the
option of relying on NATO or the Gulf
states credible at all. We ourselves,
the most powerful nation on the planet,
are having such tremendous difficulty,
both operational and strategic, to crack
that code. There's no way we're going to
rely on the Europeans to do it for us.
The
below we were
hoping I'm going to use that word now.
We were hoping that this address
uh would perhaps go far enough so as to
we to give us more clarity on what the
path is forward short-term.
Let me Let me ask a direct question. Are
we any better off
right now than we were 30 minutes ago in
terms of understanding where this head
short-term?
No. No. No. If you're going to apply
military metrics, I think the American
people, who's the main audience in this
speech, obviously, this is not for the
expert
Uh the military uh metrics that you're
going to use are going to show that we
are making tremendous progress.
Strategically speaking, no, not at all.
Did you expect the president to provide
you with details on that? No, that's not
his MO. Did you expect the president to
give you a timeline? Also, no. He
prefers to be unpredictable because he
genuinely believes that that
unpredictability works in his favor and
in the favor of the United States and
its strategy. I was not expecting any,
frankly, details or really digging deep
into what kind of a strategy he's going
to employ moving forward. This was more
to calm the waters, perhaps the global
energy markets, and provide an overview
to the American people of where we are
and what kind of progress we're making.
So, he hit on some of those, right? Uh
because there's some data to validate
it. But, strategically speaking, yeah.
No, I'm I'm as confused as to what we're
going to do next as I was like half an
hour ago.
Well, one one simply just has to look at
markets to
at this point in time, of course. let me
just qualify that in terms of time
reference that it it the opposite was
achieved in terms of calming markets.
Bilal,
thank you so much for joining us, Bilal
Saab there, senior managing director at
Trends US, an independent research and
advisory firm. For our Bloomberg
subscribers, you can turn to your
terminal for more context on this. We
There is an ongoing blog, TLIV go,
that's the function that takes you
to this effectively homepage here, where
it takes you through everything we've
seen so far for market reaction
commentary and the latest headlines that
certainly affecting your money at this
point in time. Speaking of session highs
is the chart you see top left of the
blog, which is the price coming up
shortly on your screens. We were below
100 going into the speech. We dip We
inched back above 100.
As far as oil prices are concerned, can
we look at oil, please, if we can?
And at the moment, we are, last I
checked, at about 106. So, we've added
about $6 a barrel
on that as well. There we go. So,
105.50.
Gold is a has been behaving like a risk
asset, so it is
on the back burner right now. US assets
coming up on your screens. US futures
are down. Dollar, I believe, is
stronger. Treasuries are coming up.
Should be to the downside. There we go.
So, yields would be trading higher at
the moment. And VIX futures, indicative
of, again, bets that this actually does
get more volatile moving forward.
Up a tick or two. Nikkei, Kospi, Taiwan,
and European futures should show all red
on your screens. There you go. Going
into
into the nitty-gritty of the Japanese
and Korean defense names coming up on
your screens. They should go the
opposite way.
And really, to the point our guest just
made there, we are in
We're no better off in as far as
the understanding of how this ends
and how we get there. And it's It seems
that we're back to square one in some
ways here. Or just another reversal from
what we saw the previous day when there
was hope that you know the US might be
ending this war even if it means the
Strait of Hormuz is effectively shut,
but the threats to to strike
infrastructure in Iran if there is no
deal. I think that was the biggest
takeaway for the market here that you
know this this might not end and might
get worse than it is currently right
now. So so that certainly is the the key
reason why you're seeing defense
certainly catching a bid here and risk
assets of course there you go in the
China session just opening up just 6
minutes ago. We are starting the day in
Shanghai to the downside about a third
of 1%. A Shanghai crude though
interesting enough hasn't really
reflected the changes so far. We
actually are seeing those futures lower
by 1% here this morning, but you are
seeing when it comes to stocks large
caps here largely speaking not a whole
lot of conviction to the upside. Let's
take a look at what it comes to Hong
Kong. Well, CATL could be the bright
spot here just given what we've seen
with EVs and stuff, right? So what we
heard from likes of BYD their overseas
shipments basically have in some ways it
looked a lot better than what's
happening in the domestic business. Just
goes to show you know
the market and people are a bit scared
of of what this means for oil prices and
maybe it is time to maybe electrify and
buy an EV. So BYD is a good indication
of that.
Big question is right? How long lasting
is this sort of extension of exports for
the company given the fact that there's
so much uncertainty and will people
actually be buying big ticket items like
cars for example. So there you go. The
EV space they had delivery numbers that
came through here for BYD, Neo, the auto
as well, but we're taking a look at the
most of the tech space. It is mostly
lower so the growth stock tech stocks.
You see what SK Hynix is doing. You see
what Samsung is doing. We saw massive
sort of big drops during the speech.
That is filtering through and following
through here in the Hong Kong session.
We have Alibaba down more than 1 and 1/2
percent. Xiaomi, Meituan also seeing
losses of more than 1% here right now.
Renminbi is seeing some weakness against
this, so the dollar is gaining a little
bit more during
at the speech here as well. So, that is
one thing to watch, right? You know,
it's still the safe haven of choice, it
seems right now. And I think, you know,
this all points down to oil prices
really, David, at this point and where
we are in terms of how it it correlates
to risk assets and the like. And I think
you've been breaking it down really on
what oil when what is most sensitive to
oil now. Yeah, the sensitivity measures
30-day correlation across markets to the
current price of Brent.
Um yes, so what we've done is obviously
stronger dollar, well, higher oil price
is a stronger dollar. Everything else is
negatively correlated to to varying
degrees, right? So, when you get to the
fixed income space, the biggest exposure
and I guess in terms of susceptibility
to a spike in oil prices is really fixed
income and that goes into the inflation
component um as well. The CSI 300 that
the point you were making, right? The
you know, the constituency of this
market uh in terms of the banks and the
energy plays perhaps makes Chinese
mainland benchmarks less correlated to
oil, but still negatively correlated, I
think is what you're ultimately pointing
out. It's also worth mentioning, right?
Oil at extreme levels will obviously
make things behave differently. Um so, a
move in, you know, 65 to 70 dollars in
oil is not the same as 100 to 110. Yeah.
100 to 110 will create a lot more
uh dispersion than we do get with 65 to
70, which pretty much you can ignore.
But yes, this is how things stack up for
now. Just keep this in mind, of course,
in terms of if oil does spike even
higher, you perhaps this is more useful
than it uh if things fall. Right, let's
bring in Stephanie Don, chief chief
investment officer at StashAway, with
your your takeaways from that speech if
if if there is any. Yeah, obviously, I
mean, the market didn't get what it
wanted. I think yesterday there was some
I mean, I guess the Wall Street Journal
reported that Trump is going to announce
a withdrawal of US troops and the market
rallied on that.
And uh I guess the market gave Trump a
second chance, uh some more time to kind
of
uh maybe think about his strategy.
And I mean so I think this is what we
get. Trump is saying, "Okay, I know now
that I can move markets back up if I do
something, if I announce that we're
going to withdraw, and therefore I still
have some time." Now let's think about
his constraints, right? His constraint
is the of course the mid-term elections
later in the year, that's still months
away. The other constraint that he has
is I mean there is still I guess the US
is pumping out oil from its strategic
reserve. I mean that's set to sort of
end by the middle of April, in fact
April 19th. So from now till then he
still has, as he said, like two to three
weeks. So I think actually what happened
was the market gave him a chance
to further try to push again his agenda
and to try to see if they can actually
force the the Strait of Hormuz to open
in the next two weeks.
Um
it's interesting the market has shifted
a little bit, right, in terms of
positioning. Right, before it was just
the shock of energy prices and the
inflation concerns.
>> Yeah. Recently they've been discounting
maybe the growth impact as well. Do you
think that's been enough? And and and
could that reprice further? Yeah, I
think for example what you see is the
market repriced things very very
quickly. For example last week the
market was actually pricing in
Fed interest rate hikes by the end of
the year. And just I mean just today the
market was pricing in a Fed cut
actually. So I think a lot of things
have been very fluid. It depends on
what's happening in Middle East, what
Trump decides to do, and the I guess
going back to my point about the
constraint. Constraint is that if oil
prices stay longer for let's say more
than two weeks, then there will be
significant impacts to global growth.
There will be significant impacts of
course to the US inflation picture. So
far it seems like things are still okay,
right? If you look at the latest flash
PMI, that's still in expansion. If you
look at the the real time US consumer
kind of data, credit card spending. I
mean they're still all very very
healthy. Remember we have the one big
beautiful bill that's ongoing. AI capex
is still ongoing. So all these kind of
positive tailwinds that we had a few
months ago are still very very strong.
Now of course the unknown is how long is
oil prices going to stay high. And I
think this is something that
um perhaps I mean Trump would be able to
affect in some ways. And yesterday he
actually tested market a little bit on
that. And that gave him a bit of
confidence that he can actually try to
use these two weeks to to to sort of try
to come up with something. So. What is
what is safe to own now?
Uh good good question. And uh I think
actually interestingly a lot of very
crowded trades have have unwound quite a
lot, right?
Uh one very good example gold. Uh a lot
of people ask me our clients ask us
okay, I mean why is gold coming down? Uh
despite being a safe haven asset like
theoretically it should be going higher
with war. And the simple answer is that
I mean gold was a very very crowded
trade just a few weeks ago. Uh there was
a lot of
uh retail buying. There was a lot of
momentum funds buying. And therefore I
mean just with all the other kind of uh
momentum trades unwound it because
people need to take positions off.
Uh but a lot of these are actually very
very good kind of longer term
investments. Uh gold is one.
Uh the AI story that I mentioned I mean
still going very strong. So some of the
memory names have sold off. Uh for
example Nvidia is now trading at what 20
times forward earnings with
uh with its growth prospects it's
becoming cheap, right? Microsoft is down
30 something 40%. So and these are kind
of I think good names that that
investors can think about for the longer
term. Um and yeah now is a good time to
start to think about it.
I mean the memory side of things has
been wobbly of late too, right? Just
given the fact that there's all these
tools that are coming out that maybe
you know the big tech names I think it
was a Google this week that came out
with these tools that they basically
said you don't need that much memory.
Right.
To to really
>> Yeah, it's more flash now than than than
the other. What do you make of those
sort of concerns? Yeah, I think
I mean obviously technology advances,
right? And the innovation that Google
has come up with has more to do with
inference memory usage. But if you think
about the the exponential growth and AI
usage in inference in training,
I think I think that overwhelms the
technology kind of improvements.
Open claw is one good example, right?
When you spin up agents, I mean you use
like much more of the of the inference
computing. The other thing to remember
is that I think if you look at
historical bubbles
bubbles tend to happen when there's too
much money going into a particular
sector. Now
of course there's a lot of AI capex
going to AI, but the bottom neck is
actually the chips, right? Actually TSMC
has been the the gatekeeper of of
bottlenecks and there hasn't been I
guess enough opportunities for money to
go in and therefore I believe that
as long as TSMC and the memory guys are
kind of supply constrained, the AI cycle
can long last a lot longer than previous
cycles. So I mean when
when there's not enough kind of supply
and there's a lot of money trying to go
in, I think that prolongs the cycle.
All right, Stephanie, thank you so much
for joining us here. Stephanie Lo, chief
investment officer at StashAway.
Now the war in Iran certainly is has
created an opening when it comes to
China, right? So Beijing now has a
chance to present itself diplomatically
as defender of the rules-based
international order. That's really the
take from our Bloomberg senior
geoeconomics analyst Adam Fara, who
joins us now live from DC. Adam, thanks
so much for joining us so late into your
evening. Before we get to the China
angle, I just want to get your take on
on the President Trump's speech and it
seems like the markets are taking it in
in of a way that you know, it doesn't
seem like we got clarity in terms of the
the objectives or at least the strategic
objectives. And there is the still for
the president leaving room for some sort
of escalation. Overall, what stood out
to you?
So, I think you're spot-on, right? The
key takeaway here is that the president
did not take this opportunity to declare
victory and wind down US combat
operations, and instead actually laying
out to the American people the broader
argument that he's been making over the
last several weeks both in his news
conferences and via social media of the
necessity of this war and that two to
three more weeks, as he said, is
required for the United States to
accomplish its objectives. And and not
surprisingly, markets are deeply
disappointed to hear that. But what's
most interesting is that he reiterated
moves is not part of US objectives. And
rather, he sees it as both other
countries' problems to reopen and and
also simultaneously the potential for it
to simply reopen on its own at the
conclusion of hostilities. I think that
raises real questions for what the flow
of oil, natural gas, and other goods
through the strait will look like at the
end of this conflict and will certainly
not calm those who are concerned both in
markets and also the economies that are
are reliant on that, particularly in
Asia.
Adam, I like how you framed it.
The president framed the US as someone
who came in and dealt with a
neighborhood bully,
but is prepared to finish that job but
leave and leave the neighbors to deal
with the fallout and whatever and how
much that costs.
I then need to look at the other
neighborhood and look at China and your
piece that goes into this.
And in what way do you think China
stands to benefit? And what do they need
to do to step into that gap? Or do they
simply have to do nothing to benefit
from this?
So, I think the first point is to be
clear that China's certainly not happy
with the situation, right? The the
instability in the Middle East and the
potential for long-term uncertainty and
instability in the oil and gas market is
not good for a country that still
remains heavily reliant on the import of
both oil and natural gas for its its
economic growth and
but at the same time, within that
moment, there are real opportunities.
And as you said, the question is how
much do they have to do versus just
stand around and and see it happen.
On on the sitting back and watching
side, there's a really big impact on
that the United States is facing now
from the drawdown of some of its most
advanced weapons in this conflict,
particularly when we consider their
long-range cruise missiles like the
Tomahawk or their advanced interceptors,
which are so essential to taking down
drones and ballistic missiles coming in
that Iran has been launching,
particularly on the Gulf countries. Both
of those have drawn down significantly
in this conflict and the reality is that
the United States defense industrial
base is simply not positioned to
currently rebuild that stockpile in a in
a timely manner. And that leaves the
United States potentially very exposed
for any potential military contingencies
in the Indo-Pacific. And obviously, we
don't know if China's going to move
forward with anything in that regard in
the near term, but in the next several
years, the US will have less options as
it looks towards its military planning.
Uh separately, Chinese are also getting
a a front-row view of what the United
States way of war looks like right now
in 2026. And while I'm sure there's some
concern about the effectiveness of how
effective the US was, particularly in
the initial phase of the conflict, there
are also an opportunity to learn from
that and prepare for what the United
States might bring in a modern conflict
as the US deploys new weapons like its
its own drones, its new missiles, uh and
new tactics to take on Iran's
capabilities. Um so, I think it really
depends on how you want to look at it. I
would also just emphasize that on the
diplomatic front, there's certainly a
messaging angle here that that Beijing
is seeking to take advantage of.
Can Can you talk about the economic
opportunity, too? Because, you know,
obviously, China has been on a
years-long transition uh to really kind
of shed itself from external reliance on
oil, supply chains, and the like. Might
it actually be, you know, the
alternative here for many Asian nations
that, you know, could, you know, shift
to China in some ways as as an oil
supplier uh and really kind of a
regional partner during this crisis?
Uh absolutely. I think what we're
already seeing is that there are
potentially short-term positive trends
and then those longer-term trends that
could both be economically positive for
Beijing, but also help solidify economic
ties and therefore also diplomatic ties
between a variety of countries and
Beijing. And on in the short term, what
we're already seeing is that China is
stepping in quietly to address some
immediate shortfalls in the
specific refined product in Southeast
Asia. We've seen deliveries of jet fuel
and diesel to the Philippines and
Vietnam just as those countries are
suffering from a lack of specific inputs
given this the closure of the Strait of
Hormuz.
Separately, we're, you know, more
generally, I think there's this
reinvigoration of the desire to
electrify economies and find renewable
sources of energy that would allow
countries to limit their exposure to
geopolitics and and the threats from
events like this in Iran. And as we
know, the the number one producer of
those goods is China. And we're already
seeing that a little bit in the markets
as you you guys have talked about here
with BYD and other electric car
manufacturers seeing sales go up, but
we're also going to see that on solar
and wind power, which China dominates
the sector.
Adam, as always, fantastic context, sir.
Thank you so much for for staying up as
well, Adam Farhat, our Bloomberg
Economics senior geo-economics analysts.
And of course Adam's expertise
is is the Asia-Pacific and the angle and
the implications for this part of the
world. Speaking of Asia, just look at
markets, we're about mid-morning session
across some markets. First 22 minutes
into the cash market session in mainland
China and here in Hong Kong at the
bottom, 9/10 of 1%. Korea's leading
these declines currently. Lots more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. Oil prices are back
above 100, in fact back above 105 on
Brent. It's 104
just below that of course in West Texas.
So largely the takeaway for market is
large
largely disappointed in terms of whether
that off-ramp was clear.
So we are getting further premiums being
built into the markets. US and euro
futures are also going to show you the
same the same message here. Yeah, you
know, I think as Adam Farhat mentioned,
right? I think markets were expecting
some sort of victory lap that you know,
they were going to be pulling troops
back and and this is done. But then the
threat of you know, striking Iran
infrastructure if there is no deal
certainly did send some shivers across
these markets. US futures, euro futures
are still deeply in negative territory
here right now. Well, a lot more in the
next way in the next hour. You're
watching The China Show.
We are on track to complete all of
America's military objectives shortly,
very shortly.
We are going to hit them extremely hard
over the next two to three weeks. We're
going to bring them back to the stone
ages where they belong.
In the meantime, discussions are
ongoing. Regime change was not our goal.
We never said regime change, but regime
change has occurred because of all of
their original leaders' death.
If during this period of time no deal is
made, we have our eyes on key targets.
If there is no deal, we are going to hit
each and every one of their electric
generating plants very hard and probably
simultaneously.
We have not hit their oil, even though
that's the easiest target of all,
because it would not give them even a
small chance of survival or rebuilding.
But we could hit it, and it would be
gone, and there's not a thing they could
do about it.
President Trump there,
just about an hour back, that primetime
address
to the nation on effectively the updates
on Iran and that they are close to
meeting their military
objectives. Plus, of course, some
non-non-veiled threats in the event that
there is no no no deal. Yeah, so it
it seems like there was no signal of any
sort of immediate end to this war, and I
think that's what markets are really
kind of going with here at this moment,
where you are starting to see oil is
once again perked up there. Stocks are
on offer. The dollar's catching a bid.
So, it is once again
this sort of risk-off day, just given
that we were hoping for some sort of
victory lap, at least some sort of
end in sight, an off-ramp. We didn't
quite get that. In fact, I think it was
that threat of of hitting, you know,
Iranian electric plants if there is no
deal that did shook the market a bit.
Yeah, which obviously are considered war
crimes. And and the fact that that was
the framing of the of the threat, I
guess in some ways underscores that we
are, I guess in many ways, not nowhere
close still to ending or reopening the
Strait of reopening the Strait up from
where it bring the bad bad blood down on
both sides and within
within the region. Markets actually so
just a story of markets from about since
we woke up here in the Asia Pacific. So
we
did not get a very clear lead from Wall
Street. Although going into the speech
there was a hint of risk appetite being
built in. Once the speech started things
then went south and further south once
it ended and into where we are right now
and then a half percent on the Nikkei
225 3% down in the Kospi index. Oil will
basically tell you everything you need
to know. In fact now let's have a look
at the Asian benchmark too. There we go.
Session lows oil and the dollar stronger
oil stronger dollar coming up on your
screens. We were
we closed just above a hundred
on the cut off Wednesday to Thursday in
the Asia Pacific. We were trading at
about 99 and then we went up to the
current levels right after that speech.
Bond markets
yields should be pushing higher. Last we
checked just about across the board.
There we go. On your screens. Yeah okay.
So let's get more context.
>> Yeah let's bring in our team Bloomberg
managing editor Jill Disis is with us
here in Hong Kong. Plus want to bring in
Jumana Berchete our Horizons Middle East
and Africa anchor who joins us from
Dubai. Jill I'll start with you. What
did we learn from this speech?
Well we didn't really get a whole lot of
new in terms of actual policy and
strategic direction from Trump here. I
think that market reaction though
obviously as you've been talking about
is is really kind of a case of the the
rhetoric that Trump is is reiterating
here right? I mean talking about those
potential strikes those threats of
strikes on critical infrastructure. I
think obviously is something that is
really really going to make people
jittery if there's that idea of even
even though the US is trying to move out
of the country.
We also still have this sort of threat
of escalation right? I mean for Trump I
guess like the key takeaway here is that
this isn't a clean exit right? There's
no sort of like clean pathway toward
de-escalation in Trump's mind. I mean,
he goes into this, you know, very rare
primetime address with this, you know,
the bravado that's very typical of Trump
where he's talking about, you know,
these these threats of hitting Iran
extremely hard. That in particular
seemed to cause quite a bit of jitters
here. So, again, when it comes to Trump,
it's just really kind of difficult to,
you know, sort of articulate your way
through exactly what's going to happen
because he's he's he's simultaneously
threatening to increase this pressure
campaign, but also saying, well, we're
going to exit in a couple of weeks. So,
hard to get a clear read of exactly how
long this is going to last just from
that. And Jill, obviously, we we
everyone else in the world saw it, but
was this address mainly meant for a
domestic audience?
>> Yeah, yeah, of course. So, look, I
think, you know, again, there's nothing
materially new necessarily in what Trump
is saying in the speech, but this is a
primetime address
to Americans. He talked quite a bit
about US gasoline prices, talking about
sort of short-term pain, and then
eventually things he he presumes would
get better.
I I think what's really important to
remember is that while, you know, we and
the rest of the world the rest of the
world is kind of looking at
Trump policy through that international
lens. For Trump, the big item on his
calendar this year is the midterms in
November and trying to build a case for
trying to, you know, broaden or tighten
Republican control. That's really,
really difficult to do when the economy
is not necessarily in a great place or
gas prices are super high. I mean,
that's something that, you know, the
average voter in the US is going to
really, really pay attention to. So,
he's got to use these opportunities to
make his case to the American people for
why it's a good idea for him to get
involved in, you know, international
conflicts.
>> Which, we'll point out, you know, he
spent some his campaign saying that he
wasn't going to get involved in. So,
it's really difficult balancing act for
Trump, but yeah, I think that's kind of
what he's trying to do here.
>> And using that 9:00 p.m. sort of
primetime platform to really relay on
message that gas prices will return to
normal soon. This is just a short-term
blip. Ajmana, I want to bring you in.
Obviously, Middle East markets are
slowly waking up to this speech. How do
you think they're going to respond? I
mean, especially those comments about,
you know, it's not up to us now. We've
done the hard work, but the rest of the
world, you should go and read help and
reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
Yeah, well, I mean, there's a lot to
unpack here. What I first the first
thing that I would say is I think
perhaps there was too much optimism
going into this speech on expectation
that he may announce a ceasefire in a
couple of hours before he made the
national address.
Press TV, this is the Iranian Press TV
reported that the Iranian Foreign
Ministry actually asserted they'd never
asked for a ceasefire. So, the language
once again from Iran is still one of
defiance. And actually,
interestingly enough, the Iranian
president released an open letter to the
American public yesterday.
He was saying that it questioning
whether the US are actually following an
America first policy, whether they've
been dragged into this war. He's
claiming that Iran had been acting in
self-defense. And perhaps
ahead of the American public, there's a
key choice here, whether they want to go
down the route of confrontation or the
one of diplomacy. Now, of course, again,
it is a lot of rhetoric coming through
from their side. He doesn't spell out
what the diplomatic path can look like.
And also worth reminding viewers as well
because specifically in
Trump's true social post yesterday, he
spoke about the Iranian President Raisi.
He does not have a lot of clout or
influence in terms of foreign policy, in
terms of nuclear decisions, and in terms
of military decisions. So, it is again
still unclear at this point whether the
Iranians have the appetite to come to
the table. New York Times reporting
overnight that a lot of intelligence
suggests that they still feel that they
hold a lot of cards here, especially
when it comes to that Strait of Hormuz.
Yeah,
Ajmana, the one of the other things that
the president said was that they were
close to achieving
core and also I think he also mentioned
military objectives.
Does that to you
effectively mean that we hostilities and
the bombing and these campaigns could
actually get get get much worse over the
next 2 to 3 weeks as they near that
specific conclusion?
I think that is one way to interpret
what he was saying. It seems as though
he was laying the groundwork for an
intensification further of military
operations of the next 2 to 3 weeks. And
he also gave another threat to Iran.
It sort of went a bit unnoticed, but he
did say if a deal is not done in that
time frame, then they would not hold
back at hitting Iranian infrastructure,
those power plants, and completely
obliterating them. And this I guess
extends the time frame for that other
deadline that was supposed to be on
April the 6th, whereby he also said if
they don't come to the table for and
negotiate or get a deal across the line,
then Iranian infrastructure, that key
civilian infrastructure could be
targeted. So that's a threat that's
still very much present on the table.
But I do just want to go back to
something else because once again, he's
made that de-linking between what
they're doing militarily versus the
opening of the Strait of Hormuz. And I
think it's very very clear now that the
intention from the US is to have other
countries around the world, those who
are more reliant on oil that passes
through the Strait of Hormuz, deal with
that situation. And in fact, the UK
Prime Minister Keir Starmer yesterday
suggested, well, actually said
that they're going to be hosting a
meeting with around 35 other countries
this Thursday to discuss diplomatic
efforts to try to open the Strait. So it
definitely feels like other countries
around the world are seeing and thinking
about what they can do.
But at the same time, President Trump
has once again de-linked an outcome to
the war from the Strait of Hormuz, which
contradicts some of the messaging that
he put through on Truth Social
yesterday, also.
Yeah, and just a last question in that,
Joe. The The
So, clearly there's an important meeting
that that's a lot of
That's a big group, 30 30 plus.
I'm curious how that message in is
resonating in the region where you are.
That slowly that message of that is
opening up is on you guys and not on us.
Has that become more accepted? I just
wonder what those conversations are
right now.
Yeah, well, as we've been reporting in
the last couple of days, you definitely
get the sense that for many Gulf states,
Iran has crossed the red line. The
resolve seems to be hardened. You heard
the Saudi foreign minister about 10 days
ago saying that their patience is not
unlimited. More and more comment
comments coming out from a stream of UAE
officials. The Adnoc CEO yesterday
likening Iran's grip over the Strait of
Hormuz as economic terrorism. And so, an
outcome in which Iran still maintains
sovereignty over the Strait of Hormuz is
absolutely not acceptable. And many
media outlets, including our own, have
reported that perhaps behind the scenes
Gulf states are actually egging Trump on
and and to finish off with these
military operations so that Iran will no
longer pose a consistent threat, danger,
uh or um
be an aggressive neighbor on their
doorstep. That would not be an outcome
that would be
uh a good one for many of these Gulf
states. So, I think there is an
acceptance that when it comes to the
Strait of Hormuz, something has to be
done. If they can help in terms of, you
know, demining or providing surveillance
drones, then they would definitely
partake in that, yeah.
Thank you so much. T- Our Our team there
Jamila Berseji in in in Dubai for us
there and of course here on set with us
is is Jill Disis.
Just a for our viewers and our clients
TLIBGO of course we have an ongoing blog
right now on the latest it goes
everything from 60 minutes back to some
of the takeaways key headlines from the
speech into where we are an hour after
and how markets have digested it and
some of the commentary that has come
through from the street
itself it just to really make sense of
what really are the key takeaways
from the primetime address.
>> Yeah, coming up we're going to get the
take on Goldman Sachs and what they
think about this when it comes to soft
commodities right when we're talking
about fertilizer also we're talking
about the aluminum impact as well as the
war on Iran threatens supply chains.
This is Bloomberg.
All right, we're checking some EV
players in China here this morning some
delivery numbers for March that they
come through here BYD certainly was the
standout there given the fact that some
of their overseas exports certainly was
a bright spot against what has been a
very challenging domestic market but you
take a look at when it comes to some of
these EVs were mostly lower here this
morning
but Cherry Auto seems to be the standout
here today we're up some 5% in
particular there they were talking about
a year-to-date sales of more than
566,000
which is still down about 3%
year-on-year but nevertheless the stock
is still bucking the trend here this
morning Dave. Yeah, certainly all roads
lead back to the big one BYD is I guess
a proxy here when you look at exports we
talked about this earlier right overseas
sales on the company up 65% that's for
the month of March.
You have these surging oil prices
boosting incentives to own EVs. Let's
bring in Minmin Loh our China
correspondent here with us to talk us
through the the climbing exports and how
domestic sales are also doing.
Yeah, it's a bit of a mixed picture here
because exports are doing really well we
just go to any overseas showroom,
especially in Southeast Asia, it's
bustling with activity and that's really
because of the tailwind from the Iran
war, right? Causing a lot of people to
think about switching their gasoline
vehicles for the EVs. But then domestic
sales, that's slumping by 40% on year.
Total sales is down by 20% on year. It's
really being being weighed down by the
domestic sales, the weak consumption
demand here, uh particularly after the
government had scaled back the EV
subsidies. And BYD is particularly
hard-hit because it's always positioned
itself as that cheap, affordable, at a
cheap price point, right? And so it
suffers from the price competition
there. So, uh the company really has to
rely heavily on overseas sales. It has
guided um expectations higher for
overseas sales this year. It's looking
at 1.5 million cars, up from 1.3 million
cars that it previously announced. Yeah,
and was able to surpass the likes of
Geely, right? Um that's only one thing
to watch. Uh when it comes to Zhejiang
Leapmotor,
there's talks of with Stellantis to to
build EVs in Canada. How likely is that
move? Yeah, this is according to what
sources are telling us and it's a bit of
a complicated situation here because
they are looking to potentially take
over an idle plant that Stellantis had
vacated because it moved its SUV
production to the US in reaction to
Trump's tariff. So, that was something
that angered the Canadian government
which then threatened to claw back
subsidies to Stellantis. So, Stellantis
has a few options here. It can sell that
plant or it can bring in new investments
to do something else there. So, they're
now considering bringing in Zhejiang
Leapmotor. But then, there's been
already thousands of people who are laid
off and all these people and remember
Canada has a very mature automated
motive industry. So, they really want to
ensure that whoever comes over to take
over that plant creates a full-fledged
assembly plant that uses local parts,
local supplies instead of uh
a plant that just puts together
knock-down kits from China. So, they're
concerned about that. There needs to be
very delicate discussions with the labor
unions, with the local suppliers there.
And then another big question mark is
how Trump would react because Trump has
threatened retaliation on Canada if it
makes any deal with China. And it has
threatened 100% tariffs on Canadian
goods, but so far Prime Minister Carney
has sort of pushed back against that
with a strip to Beijing in January. He
sort of agreed that he would lower
tariffs for Chinese EVs if Chinese
capital were to enter a Canadian market
with through joint ventures with trusted
partners. So, Stellantis is now in talks
with the government for that. All right,
Mimi Lo, thank you. Our China
correspondent on all things EV cars here
this morning and some corporate news
also. Hyundai is stepping up its US push
unveiling a rugged rugged SUV concept
and confirming plans for a US-built
mid-size pickup. The South Korean
automaker says body-on-frame vehicles
will be central to its American strategy
with a pickup aimed for launch by 2030.
Hyundai is betting big on the US market
pledging $26 billion in investments
through 2028.
The Australian market regulator has
released its final report into AXX
concluding that the exchange operator's
risk management and compliance practices
needs improvement. It also found that
ASX's monitoring, supervision, and
enforcement of operating and listing
rules require more attention. The AXX
chair, David Clark, says the ASIC report
makes tough reading, but the operator
accepts there is more to do and is
taking action.
All right, check out markets here as we
get to that lunch break in Japan. We're
getting We're ever so closely there.
Looks like here still some risk-off
moves here across markets. Hang Seng as
well as CSI 300 are lower here this
morning, but not as big as what we're
seeing in North Asia. Nikkei and Kospi
are lower can substantially too.
This is Bloomberg.
I have a suggestion. Number one, buy oil
from the United States of America. We
have plenty. We have so much. And number
two, build up some delayed courage.
Should have done it before. Should have
done it with us as we asked.
Go to the Strait and just take it.
Protect it. Use it for yourselves. Iran
has been
essentially decimated. The hard part is
done, so it should be easy.
That was President Trump in today's
White House address and essentially
saying that he expects the Strait of
Hormuz to open up naturally and
encouraging other nations, not the US,
to help reopen it. In terms of what
we're seeing across what most countries
around the world are doing and how
they're dealing with this impact of this
energy shock, right? Take a look at what
we saw in South Korea, those inflation
numbers that came out this morning.
Consumer inflation edged higher in
March, rising 2.2% from a year earlier.
Now, that pickup comes as the Iran war
drives global energy costs higher with
Brent crude jumping more than 40% during
the month. The Bank of Korea is widely
expected to keep policy steady at its
April 10th meeting, even as higher oil
prices threaten to fuel inflation and
weigh on growth. French President
Emmanuel Macron says France and Japan
agree on the need for a ceasefire in
Iran and safe passage for shipping in
the region. Speaking in Tokyo alongside
Japanese Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi,
Macron emphasized maritime security,
stable supplies of key goods, and a
swift de-escalation of tensions in the
Middle East. Both leaders also
underscored the strength of bilateral
ties and the importance of their
partnership. The collateral damage and
the fallout and how
economies in the Asia Pacific are
dealing with the domestic implications
of just sky-high oil prices. Alongside
the primetime address a few minutes in
the last hour of the US president in
Australia who had the federal government
also announcing additional cuts to the
fuel excise tax for the next 3 months
and that will reduce of course petrol
prices somewhat
extra six Aussie cents per per per per
liter. Um obviously there's been talks
about fuel
tax cuts and certainly and other ways to
really cushion the blow for for
consumers here but we did hear from
Indonesia as well this week just urging
citizens to save fuel by switching to
public transport prepare for possible
ability of difficult times ahead. So
certainly it's it's interesting for a
developed nation to say you know take
the bus
here and really enjoy your Easter but
don't really try to don't try to avoid
those lines I guess he says at the gas
station. So yeah certainly it's not just
Australia right plenty of other Asian
economies are really kind of dealing
with this too right now.
>> Yeah this collective belt tightening
Yeah.
>> that's on that we're seeing across the
region. I think we've heard from South
Korea several examples there. I think
Singapore has also been discussing ways
that apply to them and of course
Southeast Asia is also dealing with it.
I think we had the piece out I think it
was out yesterday that talks about and a
reminder that
it is a a holiday already in the
Philippines and the reason I bring it up
is peak travel season actually in the
Philippines right now and it also goes
to the fact that some of the travel
there might actually might actually is
that for a fact is actually being
affected by
high oil prices right? So mobility is
actually affecting that's going to go
into GDP and activity and the amount of
output economies can turn out. Yeah and
I think when you talk about you know
fertilizer prices are surging here what
does that mean for food production and
the like are we likely going to see some
sort of
food inflation sort of you know hit
right? So certainly that's going to be
the big thing to watch here. We're going
to have Tina Tina Chen from Goldman
Sachs to talk us through kind of what
the supply constraints are at the moment
here also kind of talk about that whole
aluminum side of things here and what it
means for some of the smelters in China
and of course in the region as well. But
you know, largely speaking I think we've
been focusing on President Trump's
speech for the last 90 minutes or so and
basically it seems like markets are in
one word disappointed that we didn't see
a clear path to peace here. We have
plenty more to come. This is Bloomberg.
1:29 a.m. in Tokyo Japanese markets head
out lunch break in just a minute and and
we are still seeing downside when it
comes to equities and risk assets here
today. It's actually the you know,
stocks as well as the currency as well
as bonds are falling here in Japan. 1:59
levels that we're back to now for dollar
yen here and certainly the dollar has
emerged once again here in the face of
this this President Trump speech that
basically didn't give a clear path to
some sort of off ramp. So certainly
there's still that threat of escalation
in the Middle East that you know,
President Trump did allude to here the
threat of you know, even attacking Iran
infrastructure or power plants if there
is no Iran deal. That's why you're
seeing stocks in Tokyo down close to 2%
for the Nikkei 225. Yields are also
perking higher. We're up about two basis
points for your 10-year JGB. Yeah, and I
think when you look at Asia Pacific and
we'll get we'll have a look underneath
the hood. We've already
we've managed to compile some commentary
some initial hot takes from analysts on
where they think we actually are and as
far as markets and strategies concerned
following the speech.
The initial take on markets and just
simply look at price is that it
certainly we are
things are likely to get This is the
message from the markets. Things are
likely to get worse before they get
better with session lows on on the
benchmark. I think our colleague Jamana
from the Middle East from Dubai early on
said it perfectly, right?
Perhaps market expectations were just
ratcheted up too high ahead of the
speech and following what was mostly a
recap of what the president has said in
recent weeks more than anything new
in terms of solutions to I think achieve
strategic objectives, markets then had
to pare back some of those expectations
that were baked in ahead of that speech.
All right, let's bring Lan Ting into our
Bloomberg managing editor for Asian
equities. She joins us from Singapore.
Lan Ting, it seems like it was not
really the speech that markets wanted to
hear. What were some of the commentary
you've gotten from some of your sources,
your guests here this morning?
Yeah, we did speak to tons of folks on
the street. The overwhelming sort of
sentiment that we gathered was
disappointment. I think that's probably
the right word to summarize it all.
Yeah, the market had gone into this
speech with at least some hopes for
de-escalation or some clarity around
that,
but Trump as you guys mentioned focused
a little bit more on, you know, striking
Iran extremely hard in the next two to
three weeks and also threatened to
strike Iran's power plants. And that
certainly was the main message that
investors took away from that the
de-escalation that Trump sort of
mentioned leading up to this speech was
not going to be panned out anytime soon.
So, they're busy revising down their
base case, which is now tilting towards
a little bit more bearish than they had
originally expected. And even with the
war potentially ending in two to three
weeks or at least the US exiting the
Middle East then, people are still
talking about how the higher energy
costs are not going to go away anytime
soon just because it's very complicated
situation with the Strait of Hormuz just
because it's it's just very hard for it
to cleanly open up to the status that we
saw before the war started. So, earnings
will be impacted and we'll hear from the
likes of all the, you know, global
companies in the next month, actually
this month. So, we're starting the
earning season in mid-April. So, we'll
really get a bit more clarity and most
likely companies will talk a little bit
more on the impact. So, any kind of
equity optimism may be curbed by the
kind of earnings results coming from
companies.
The engine, thank you. The engine two
there, our managing editor for Asian
equities. The initial take for markets
on
what did take place. Let's have a look
at where we are and this is really one
other commodity that's gotten caught up
towards the latter end of March.
Aluminum is down about 1%. You have of
course this massive producer in the
Middle East has halted output because of
some damage there to
some of their assets and it isn't the
only one that's getting squeezed. Yeah,
you know, we used to talk about oil, we
talked about energy, but aluminum, you
know, is now sort of the next sort of
industry to really watch out for, right?
So, countries are now racing to secure
supplies of fertilizers as well as the
conflict chokes commodity flows and
heightens fears of a food crisis. And
Malaysia is also mobilizing aggressive
efforts to expand its import sources and
secure supplies. India too is looking
for alternative sources to shore up
supplies and the country's fertilizer
supply situation has been hit by the
war. But officials say New Delhi has
sufficient stocks. Over in Europe,
France is also asking the European Union
to help farmers struggling with soaring
costs. I think China that was also the
latest here, we heard from the Commerce
Ministry saying that Beijing will
purchase and store frozen pork in its
central reserves to help stabilize the
market. Officials say they will closely
monitor market conditions, strengthen
trend analysis and use reserves to
support stable operations. This really
comes at a time when you're seeing hog
prices domestically hit a 15-year low
with rising costs really squeezing
producer margins.
>> we just saw beef actually. I know the
difference between beef and pork. Those
Those look like beef. Anyway, that
that's just that's just me cuz I But
this the idea of of pork reserves, yes,
in China. Protein, yes. Think about that
for the moment. When you look when we
talk about inflation all the time here
in the show, there's always a read of
inflation ex food and energy.
>> Mhm. And when you have those two things
where they are right now, tell us how
important this story is to the consumer
and how that's about to hit.
>> Yeah. Uh let's bring in joining us here
at set is Goldman Sachs co-head of
Greater China Equity Research and also
China Basic Materials and Agriculture
analyst Trina Chen. Good morning. A very
nice to see you. So, we're now talking
about the potential for food inflation
coming through. How does what's How is
what's happening in Iran affecting
everything else that you're covering?
Yes, you know, absolutely. Uh Middle
East plays an incredibly important role
in the global fertilizer industry. So,
to set the context, fertilizer, we have
three key elements: nitrogen, potash,
phosphate. So, nitrogen being probably
the most important and basic one that's
what usually people say urea. Now,
Middle East produces 10 to 15% of all
these three.
But also it contributes probably even
unproportionately larger
portion of the seaborne traded or global
traded fertilizer. For example, urea,
the most important one, 1/3 actually is
from the Middle East.
Uh so, that's the first I think this is
role, but there's also indirect
importance. For example, uh Middle East
situation also affect the fertilizer
production in other places in the world.
Uh 60% of global urea is actually
produced out of gas.
And in many places in Southeast Asia, in
India, nearly 95 or even 100% of the
urea actually is produced from imported
LNG. So that you could see the
vulnerability of those regions. Uh
there's another I think the last thing I
could think of is really sulfur. Uh it
may sounds very disconnected, but it's
so
>> yeah. Yes, yes. And the fertilizer in
sulfur is a byproduct of the oil and the
gas industry and it's incredibly
important, critically important to
phosphate fertilizer
production. So So with that actually in
the picture, you could already see
um year-to-date current spot price urea
is already 70% higher
uh than the beginning of the year.
Phosphate is probably 30% higher. Uh so
that already tells you how tight the
market may pricing is the best
reflection of the market tightness and
that reflecting what is happening. Now I
think we spoke about China. Yeah. Now
China managing the situation not immune
but relatively better. Uh China is more
than 100% self-sufficiency in two out of
the three fertilizers. Uh in In fact,
sometimes in the year China will decide
to export or not. Which are the two out
of the three? Uh fertilizer Sorry,
nitrogen and phosphate. Uh or we could
have called MAP and DAP.
Um now
China is also I think one of the
important things China is doing per
literally very differently, probably the
only country globally, is China produce
urea out of coal.
And that provide a lot of steadiness to
the domestic pricing. So if you look at
the fertilizer price in China, it did
move up in much more moderate manner. Uh
so it's not immune, but this is just how
different countries managing their
situation. And and I kind of take it
back to what we saw during 2022 during
the Russian invasion of Ukraine where
you basically saw wheat prices
skyrocket. I don't think we're seeing
that quite that sort of reaction this
time around when you're talking about
wheat, you know, up single digits or so.
Um
the this whole concern that without
fertilizers farm production will will
take a big plunge and then, you know,
food shortages and the like. Are those
concerns a bit too much, you think? What
are food stocks and like looking at
right now? Right. Uh well, I think it's
interesting you you mentioned 2022. So,
that's kind of one historical period you
could look back in terms of what high
oil price that leads into. You could
There are other period you could look
maybe 2007
to 2008, you know, where oil price is
triple digits. And you typically see
high oil price accompanied with less
usage of fertilizer and the higher grain
prices. Now, in some of these extreme
cycles grain price could move 50% even
more than 100%. I think the
Russia-Ukraine war situation initial
response is
Ukraine actually was directly a very
large wheat producer. So, the physical
market responded that directly, but that
wasn't If you look at the 2 years after
the Ukraine war, that's the year where
every country in Asia talk about food
security in a much more focused manner.
There is a science behind this. You
know, it's essentially there's demand
elasticity of farmers on fertilizer
pricing. So, that's always there, but in
extreme cases when availability become a
risk uh then I think in places where we
just discuss in Southeast Asia, India,
there's, you know, additional risk
coming into.
Now, how does If you use less
fertilizer, how does it impact the
yield? Yes. Um now, there's empirical
study and we also look at the Ministry
of Agriculture in China. Uh they have
this guidance. You could very much see
if you reduce fertilizer usage by 10%,
the yield reduction could be more than
10%. So, if in other words, you have 50%
reduction in fertilizer, you lose half
the yield. That's how much impact there
is.
And
it's even more important in the planting
season
where majority of the fertilizer for the
crop growth cycle is needed to be
applied. So, it's not evenly through the
year. And we are now in the planting
season for China and for many countries
in Asia. So, so I I wouldn't say I
couldn't see anything different that
this time would be different than the
history. Well, my follow-up then would
be is now the planting season? And what
sort of disruptions to physical
deliveries have we seen? Like have we
been in this long enough to determine
that farmers will not have that
fertilizer supply that then affects us
two, I don't know, one, two years down
the road?
>> Yeah. Well, I I think we're still at the
beginning of planting season. Um so, we
are seeing news flow, for example, in
the certain countries there's a very
tightness actually in terms of
fertilizer usage. Actually, uh China
planned you know, in every year after
May, China usually export a bit of a
excess urea um after the planting
season. Uh but then that actually also
become a risk and because that could be
a few million ton, a few percent of the
global supplies incredibly important for
some of the other countries. So, I think
we still have to observe. We're at the
beginning of the planting season. Um but
for physical market to respond to that,
we usually would expect towards fourth
quarter.
So,
it the food crisis sort of
do you foresee some sort of food crisis
or do you think given the fact that
farmers have been doing quite well
leading up to this this war that we have
more buffers than say
a few cycles ago.
Uh
No, I as I mentioned I I I
Yeah, I I couldn't see I think for from
an analyst perspective, if you look at
all the the the element that's pointing
to higher food prices, I don't see
anything different now.
>> you think?
>> Correct. Yes.
>> Okay. How much higher do you think the
food prices can go then? I think that
very much depends on
the oil price assumption. Okay.
Historically, when we see oil prices
over 100 US dollars, food price move up
50 to 100%.
So,
everything you guys just talk about, you
know, then that determines where we're
going from here.
What does that mean
for fertilizer stocks?
Or names that are tied to that?
>> Mhm.
Fertilizer stocks, China and globally
has been performing performance has been
very mixed. Okay. Um I think from equity
perspective, there's fertilizer side of
angle, but there's also additional
element I think equity markets trying to
price in beyond that is you know, in
terms of the overall economic
environment.
>> Right. But
uh you know, we certainly uh like some
of the fertilizer stocks in in China. I
think the pushback typically for Chinese
fertilizer stocks is price in China
tends to be more sticky. Uh there's more
government influence, but I would say
they do not immune themselves from the
global trend. So, there are we
particularly like phosphate uh
fertilizer. That's even before the war,
that we see structural deficit in the
phosphate rock market.
>> And are we talking mostly
obviously when you when you say
agriculture, things that are planted,
things like wheat for example, or do we
have to then look at the second order
effects and things like pork and beef?
Because that then goes into feeding that
other cohort of agriculture. That's
right. I think
if you have the grain price move,
then certainly, you know, that your feed
price would move on one-to-one ratio.
You know, uh so soybean, corn, we've
discussed that, you know, before.
Um
whether
that industry can still make money uh
depends on in the cost inflation
environment. That's a separate
discussion, but we could pretty much
tell when
grain price move up, everything else
will move up with it.
Uh I'm going to hear you talk about
aluminum, too, which is also your
coverage. We We have seen some of these
release smelters. I mean, some of these
plants have been, you know, struck and
and has curtailed output of some How
long does it take to resume this sort of
production? And and what does it mean
for aluminum prices moving forward?
That That's right. We actually this is a
very I think uh important I think topic
for all the investors actually in the
past few days, not just in the past few
few weeks.
Uh I think the operating environment I
think for these smelters in Middle East
certainly become very challenging, and
they are incredible again important for
the global aluminum sector. Uh together,
I think there's close a dozen of
smelters there almost contributing 20%
of X China supply.
Uh isn't they It's It's pretty nature
because this is a region where cheap
energy price used to be in. But the
operational challenge they are facing
today, and that's why you're seeing the
curtailment, you're seeing the um the
the
the worry about the risk about further
shutdown is the logistic because of
street closure. They could not send in
their input input material.
I think for now market is debating how
much capacity or production has been
suspended. We spoke with the local uh
smelter consultant or industry expert a
day ago. I think the
estimate is about 800,000 ton, but a lot
of investors think it's a lot more. but
more importantly,
um I think to the question of the
restarts, it takes quite a lot of time.
If it's volunteered shutdown, it takes 2
to 4 months assuming everything is
stabilized.
For the those actually got attacked and
due to the drone Yeah.
>> uh attack, that's called a that causes
what we call the pot freeze. Those takes
6 to 8 months. And that's on the
requirement of
the smelter has to make a decision
to determine that operating environment
will be sustainably stable. So, that
will also itself will take some time.
But I saw the more importantly, the
bigger question in my mind is this is
the region that by nature we would
expect more smelter to be built in here
because the energy you know, advantage.
Uh
And that's supplies actually global
demand growth in the future. But now,
this is under question by you know,
by the smelters.
So, certainly
impose risk of higher long-term
mid-cycle price.
Trina, great to have you. Thanks for
telling us uh
yeah, as frankly as possible what the
implications
>> story. uh of of this war really has on
not just fertilizer, aluminum and the
like. Trina Chen there, co-head of
Greater China Equity Research and China
Basic Materials and Agriculture Analyst
at Goldman Sachs. Coming up, NASA has
launched four astronauts on a historic
mission sending humans closer to the
moon than any time in more than 50
years. Well, the details coming up next.
This is Bloomberg.
One, booster ignition. Two, now bound
for the moon. Humanity's neck
Good roll pitch. Well, NASA has launched
its first moon mission in over 50 years.
Four astronauts are now in orbit in the
biggest milestone yet for NASA's Artemis
program, which aims to land humans on
the moon as soon as 2028.
Let's bring in Paul Allen, he's with us
right now. Uh Paul, I mean it it was
such a milestone that even President
Trump started his primetime speech
congratulating, of course, uh the
Artemis mission. Tell us a little more
of the objectives.
Yeah, it is a big milestone indeed.
First trip to the moon by humans in 50
years, and it'll be unique as well
because the astronauts on board that
capsule are going to get a view of the
moon that nobody ever gets to see, and
that is the far side because the moon is
tidally locked. So, here on Earth, we
only ever get to see the same side of
the moon. But, there was a seamless
launch, uh perfect uh conditions. There
were a couple of minor issues before
lift-off, which were resolved. So, now
it begins, this 10-day journey. Uh the
first few days will be spent in orbit
around the Earth in lower Earth orbit uh
tests. Uh there will be testing of
systems, uh testing of the manual pilot
system as well, and also some
experiments to see if Orion can get to
the moon uh potentially using a SpaceX
Starship in future, where the Starship
would push this capsule uh for the rest
of its journey. But, this is a long
journey. The moon is uh 250,000
mi away. That's about 400,000 km. The
whole round trip uh forward back in 10
days' time, that's 680,000 mi or a
million km.
And what what's the longer-term plan
beyond this current mission, Paul?
Yeah, so this is Artemis 2. Uh the next
mission, Artemis 3, will include a
practice docking with a lunar lander,
which sets the stage for Artemis 4 in
2028, which will mean a manned landing
on the moon, uh the first since we've
seen since the early '70s. So, that
landing would take place near the South
Pole uh with a view to establishing a
permanent presence. Now, the cost of all
this is very expensive, obviously. It's
about uh 30 billion dollars at the
moment. Uh the reason for the haste, uh
China also has similar plans for a
manned lunar landing by 2030. Now, you
might think, well, what's there? Well,
there is plenty there. There is water
ice, particularly near the poles, that
could be a potential source of rocket
fuel for onward missions to Mars. And
there is also a very rare isotope of
helium, helium-3, uh which has the
potential for use in nuclear fuel in the
fusion reactors. So, plenty of interest
in the moon at the moment. And uh yeah,
50 years on, another race to get there.
There we go, Paul Allen in Sydney. And
you can get more uh the story on our
video hub. And finally, some conclusion
and finality to the flat-mooner uh
movement there uh once we do get around
that sphere.
Lots more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Right. Uh welcome back. A look at some
of the bright spots across these markets
given the pop back in the oil price to
the upside. Gas also. Um so, you have
the big names, of course, in mainland
China. The have a look too at some of
the big chips and
uh yeah, some of the memory plays. And
Korea's been all over the place. I think
Samsung had its best day yesterday in
about 25 years uh on price itself. And
this is really a good gauge of risk
appetite, maybe at the very, very edge
of things. Uh also, separate story, of
course, that that that that that
dovetails into the uh this group of
names on your screens. So, Techistan
really has, I guess, a function too of
just risk appetite being sapped out of
this market following that move.
>> Yeah, the bulls are going to be still to
be tested here given all this volatility
around some of these growth stocks that
certainly continue to take the beating
here today in the back of that speech
from President Trump.
>> Open AI to the capital
>> Yeah, open AI, the CapEx concerns and
the like if they're talking about this
whole path to profitability. So, that's
just adding to the mix here on why tech
is getting roiled here today. That's it
for us here on the China show. Insight
with Haslinda Amin is next. Stay with
us.